[KIP-34] Klaytn SDK Common Architecture (#34)
klaytn/kips: KIPs/kip-dreaft_sdk_common_architecture.md

The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of programming languages.

## Motivation

Klaytn SDKs (caver-js and caver-java) do not share common terminology and software architecture.
It makes difficult to implement blockchain applications using multiple programming languages.
For example, if the server program is implemented in Java and the client is implemented in Javascript,
the developer should learn two different SDKs that have different terminology and software architecture
even if those programs utilize a single blockchain platform, Klaytn.

The common architecture is designed to unify the terminology used in the SDKs and easily extend to other languages by establishing a language-independent common architecture.

With the common architecture, we want to achieve two goals:

- Developers can easily implement their application using another language if they have implemented in any Klaytn SDK before.
- An SDK in another programming language can be implemented relatively easily because the software architecture is commonly defined.

## Specification

### Terminology

| Term        | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | Account | A data structure containing information like balance, nonce, public key(s), etc. Note that the public key(s) of the account can be changed in Klaytn because the public key(s) and the account address are decoupled. Please refer to [klaytn account] for more detail.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Account | A data structure representing a Klaytn Account. It contains information like balance, nonce, public key(s), etc. Note that the public key(s) of the account can be changed in Klaytn because the public key(s) and the account address are decoupled. Please refer to [klaytn account] for more detail.  |
```

| Account key | A data structure representing various Klaytn account key types. Please refer to [accountkey] for more detail. |

> | Keyring | A data structure containing Klaytn's account address and private key(s). It is used to sign a transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Keyring | A data structure containing Klaytn's account address and private key(s). It is used to sign a transaction. |
| Keyring container | A data structure containing multiple keyrings. |
| Wallet | A synonym of the keyring container. A wallet is a data structure containing multiple keyrings. |
```

> | [Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions#transactions-overview) | A data structure sent between nodes that changes the state of the blockchain. Klaytn provides [multiple transaction types] that empower transactions with new capabilities and optimizations for memory footprint and performance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions#transactions-overview) | A data structure sent between nodes that changes the state of the blockchain. Klaytn provides [multiple transaction types] that empower Klaytn with new capabilities and optimizations for memory footprint and performance. |
| Raw transaction | An RLP-encoded string of a transaction. |
```

> | [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) | A stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol. It uses JSON as data format. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) | A stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol. It uses JSON as a data format. |
```

| Contract | A computer program or a transaction protocol which is intended to automatically execute, control or document legally relevant events and actions according to the terms of a contract or an agreement. You can deploy a smart contract or execute a smart contract that has already been deployed to Klaytn through a transaction. |

> | ABI | An application binary interface (ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ABI | The Contract Application Binary Interface(ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules.(contract to contract, from outside the blockchain) |
```

> | ABI | The Contract Application Binary Interface(ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules.(contract to contract, from outside the blockchain) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ABI | The Application Binary Interface(ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules. |
```

> | [KCT (Klaytn Compatible Token)](http://kips.klaytn.com/token) | A special type of smart contract that implements token specifications defined in [Klaytn Improvement Proposals](http://kips.klaytn.com/). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [KCT (Klaytn Compatible Token)](http://kips.klaytn.com/token) | A special type of a smart contract that implements token specifications defined in [the KCT section of Klaytn Improvement Proposals](http://kips.klaytn.com/token). |
```

### Overview of the Common Architecture

This is the overview of the common architecture of Klaytn SDK.

![0811All](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/89860556-af63d700-dbde-11ea-815a-433aef0ae806.png)

### Layer Diagram of the Common Architecture

Below diagram shows the layers of the common architecture. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the layer box.

![layerDiagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/85986440-355d0180-ba27-11ea-8475-afe7638e6ffb.png)

The `KCT` layer allows you to interact with Klaytn compatible token (KCT) contracts (e.g. [KIP-7] or [KIP-17]). This is implemented by extending the `Contract` class in the `Contract` layer.

The `Contract` layer allows you to interact with smart contracts on the Klaytn.

The `ABI` layer provides the functions to encode and decode parameters based on ABI.

> The `Transaction` layer contains classes of Klaytn transaction types, `TransactionDecoder`, and `TransactionHasher`.
> 
> The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string. The `TransactionHasher` class calculates the hash of the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Transaction` layer contains classes of Klaytn transaction types, `TransactionDecoder`, and `TransactionHasher`. The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string. The `TransactionHasher` class calculates the hash of the transaction.
```

The `Wallet` layer contains keyring classes (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) and `KeyringContainer` class that contains multiple keyrings. The `KeyringContainer` class acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the Keyring instances.

The `Account` layer contains an `Account` class that stores information needed when updating the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn.

Also, the `RPC` layer includes the `Klay` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the klay namespace, and the `Net` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the net namespace.

Finally, the `Utils` layer contains the `Utils` class that provides utility functions.

From the next chapter, each layer is described in detail.

> ### Account Layer Class Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Account Layer
```

The `Account` layer provides functionality related to updating the [AccountKey] of the Klaytn account.

![0811Account](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/89860635-e508c000-dbde-11ea-8c2f-b755212f3556.png)

> `Account` is a class that contains information needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn. It has `address` and `accountKey` as member variables. The `accountKey` can be an instance of (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` or `AccountKeyRoleBased`) depending on the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Account` is a class that represents a Klaytn account. It contains information needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn. It has `address` and `accountKey` as member variables. The `accountKey` can be an instance of `AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig`, and `AccountKeyRoleBased` depending on the key.
```

> An `Account` instance is injected into the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction types (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` or `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When an AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the account key of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in the `Account` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `Account` instance is injected into the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction types (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate`, and `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When an AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the account key of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in the `Account` instance.
```

> Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and account key classes (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implements IAccountKey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and account key classes (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implement IAccountKey.
```

> `WeightedMultiSigOptions` is provided for `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` where the threshold and the weight of each key are defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WeightedMultiSigOptions` is for `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` where the threshold and the weight of each key are defined.
```

The `AccountKeyDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the decode function implemented in each AccountKey class.

#### IAccountKey

`IAccountKey` is the interface of AccountKey. All AccountKey classes must implement `IAccountKey`.

> - Variable description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Variable description
```
Please change headers. `-` for a header is not good for visibility.

Author: I changed header :)

> ##### Variable description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Variables
```

None

> ##### Method description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Methods
```

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey* classes below inherit `IAccountKey`, and this function must be implemented. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey* classes below implements `IAccountKey` interface, and this function must be implemented. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey* classes below implements `IAccountKey` interface, and this function must be implemented. |

Author: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes below implements `IAccountKey` interface, and this function must be implemented. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes below implements `IAccountKey` interface, and this function must be implemented. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes below implements `IAccountKey`, so this function must be implemented. |
```

#### AccountKeyLegacy

> `AccountKeyLegacy` is a class representing [AccountKeyLegacy](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeylegacy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountKeyLegacy` is a class representing [AccountKeyLegacy](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeylegacy). It is used for the account having an address derived from the corresponding key pair.
```

> ##### Variable description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Variables
```

None

> ##### Method description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Methods
```

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy and returns an `AccountKeyLegacy` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | (Static function) Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy and returns an `AccountKeyLegacy` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |

#### AccountKeyPublic

> `AccountKeyPublic` is a class representing [AccountKeyPublic](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeypublic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountKeyPublic` is a class representing [AccountKeyPublic](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeypublic). It is used for accounts having one public key.
```

> ##### Variable description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Variables
```

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| publicKey: String | A public key string. |

> ##### Method description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Methods
```

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic and returns an `AccountKeyPublic` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

> | fromXYPoint(x: String, y: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from x and y points. It throws an exception if the x and y points are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromXYPoint(x: String, y: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates and returns an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from x and y points. It throws an exception if the x and y points are invalid. |
```

> | fromPublicKey(publicKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from public key string. It throws an exception if the public key is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromPublicKey(publicKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates and returns an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from public key string. It throws an exception if the public key is invalid. |
```

| getXYPoint(): String[] | Returns the x and y points of the public key. |
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic. |

#### AccountKeyFail

> `AccountKeyFail` is a class representing [AccountKeyFail](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyfail).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountKeyFail` is a class representing [AccountKeyFail](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyfail). It is used when all transactions sent from the account are expected to be failed.
```

> ##### Variable description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Variables
```

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Please replace all "Variable descriptions" titles with "Variables".

None

> ##### Method description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Methods
```

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Please replace all "Method descriptions" titles with "Methods".

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyFail | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail and returns an `AccountKeyFail` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail. |

#### AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig

> `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` is a class representing [AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyweightedmultisig).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` is a class representing [AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyweightedmultisig). It is an account key type containing a threshold and WeightedPublicKeys which contains a list whose item is composed of a public key and its weight.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | threshold: int | A validation threshold. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| threshold: int | A validation threshold. To be a valid transaction, the transaction must contain valid signatures equal to or more than the threshold. |
```

| weightedPublicKey: List&#60;WeightedPublicKey&#62; | A list of weighted public keys. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig and returns an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

> | fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance with public key strings in `pubArray` and the options defining the threshold and the weight of each key in `WeightedMultiSigOptions `. It throws an exception if the options or public keys for accountKeyWeightedMultiSig are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates and returns an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance with public key strings in `pubArray` and the options defining the threshold and the weight of each key in `WeightedMultiSigOptions `. It throws an exception if the options or public keys for accountKeyWeightedMultiSig are invalid. |
```

| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig. |

#### WeightedPublicKey

> `WeightedPublicKey` is a class for storing public key with weight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WeightedPublicKey` is a class storing a public key with its weight. It is used for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| publicKey: String | A public key string. |
| weight: int | A weight of the public key. |

##### Method description

None

#### WeightedKeyMultiSigOptions

`WeightedKeyMultiSigOptions` is a class that defines the threshold and the weight of each public key for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig.

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| threshold: int | A validation threshold. |

> | weighted: List&#60;int&#62; | A List of weights of public keys. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| weighted: List&#60;int&#62; | A list of weights of public keys. |
```

##### Method description

None

#### AccountKeyRoleBased

> `AccountKeyRoleBased` is a class representing [AccountKeyRoleBased](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyrolebased).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountKeyRoleBased` is a class representing [AccountKeyRoleBased](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#accountkeyrolebased). It is used to set different key pairs to different roles in an account.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | accountKeys: List&#60;IAccountKey&#62; | A list of keys to be used for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| accountKeys: List&#60;IAccountKey&#62; | A list of keys to be used for each role. An item of the list represents a role. |
```

- Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyRoleBased | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyRoleBased | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased and returns an `AccountKeyRoleBased` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role and the option that defines threshold and weight of each key. It throws an exception if the public key(s) for each role or options is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates and returns an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role and the option that defines threshold and weight of each key. It throws an exception if the public key(s) for each role or options are invalid. |
```

> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List&#60;String[]&#62;): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role. This function assumes that all the values of the threshold and weights are set to be one. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List&#60;String[]&#62;): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates and returns an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role. This function assumes that all the values of the threshold and weights are set to be one. |
```

| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. |

#### AccountKeyDecoder

`AccountKeyDecoder` provides the function to decode RLP-encoded accountKey strings.

##### Variable description

None

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): IAccountKey | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of any class that inherits `IAccountKey`. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): IAccountKey | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of any class that inherits `IAccountKey` and returns the corresponding account key class. This function is useful when decoding an RLP-encoded string of any account key types. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

#### Account

> `Account` is a class that contains information needed to update the AccountKey of the account in the Klaytn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Account` is a class that represents a Klaytn account. It contains information needed to update the AccountKey of the account in the Klaytn.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | address: String | The address of account to be updated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| address: String | The address of an account to be updated. |
```

> | accountKey: IAccountKey | The new accountKey to be used in account. This can be an instance of [AccountKeyLegacy](#accountkeylegacy), [AccountKeyPublic](#accountkeypublic), [AccountKeyFail](#accountkeyfail), [AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig](#accountkeyweightedmultisig) or [AccountKeyRoleBased](#accountkeyrolebased). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| accountKey: IAccountKey | The new accountKey to be used in the given account. This can be an instance of [AccountKeyLegacy](#accountkeylegacy), [AccountKeyPublic](#accountkeypublic), [AccountKeyFail](#accountkeyfail), [AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig](#accountkeyweightedmultisig) and [AccountKeyRoleBased](#accountkeyrolebased). |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| create(address: String, publicKey: String): Account | Generates an Account instance with an address and a public key string. |

> | create(address: String, pubKeys: String[]): Account | Generates an Account instance with an address and public key strings. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| create(address: String, pubKeys: String[]): Account | Generates an Account instance with an address and public key strings. A threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used as a default option. |
```

> | create(address: String, pubKeys: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Generates an Account instance with an address and public key strings and options that defines threshold and weight of each key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| create(address: String, pubKeys: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Generates an Account instance with an address and public key strings and options that defines the threshold and the weight of each key. |
```

| create(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): Account | Creates an Account instance with an array of public keys defined for each role. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used for each role. |

> | create(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Creates an Account instance with an array of public keys defined for each role and an array of options defined for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| create(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Creates an Account instance with an array of public keys and an array of options defined for each role. |
```

> | createFromRLPEncoding(address: String, rlpEncodedKey: String): Account | Creates an Account instance with an address and RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the RLP-encoded string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createFromRLPEncoding(address: String, rlpEncodedKey: String): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance with an address and RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the RLP-encoded string is invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyLegacy(address: String): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyLegacy as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyLegacy(address: String): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyLegacy as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string is invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyPublic(address: String, publicKey: String): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyPublic as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string or public key string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyPublic(address: String, publicKey: String): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyPublic as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string or public key string is invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyFail(address: String): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyFail as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyFail(address: String): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyFail as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string is invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyWeightedMultiSig(address: String, publicKeys: String[]): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig as an accountKey. The options required for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig use default values (threshold:1, weight of each key: 1). It throws an exception if the address string or public key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyWeightedMultiSig(address: String, publicKeys: String[]): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig as an accountKey. The options required for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig use default values (threshold:1, weight of each key: 1). It throws an exception if the address string or public key strings are invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyWeightedMultiSig(address: String, publicKeys: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string, public key strings or options are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyWeightedMultiSig(address: String, publicKeys: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string, public key strings or options are invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyRoleBased(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyRoleBased as an accountKey. If multiple keys are used among the defined roles, options use the default value (threshold:1, weight of each key: 1). It throws an exception if the address string or public key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyRoleBased(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyRoleBased as an accountKey. If multiple keys are used among the defined roles, options use the default value (threshold:1, weight of each key: 1). It throws an exception if the address string or public key strings are invalid. |
```

> | createWithAccountKeyRoleBased(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Creates an Account instance which has AccountKeyRoleBased as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string, public key strings or options are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithAccountKeyRoleBased(address: String, roleBasedPubKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;, options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Creates and returns an Account instance which has AccountKeyRoleBased as an accountKey. It throws an exception if the address string, public key strings or options are invalid. |
```

> | getRLPEncodingAccountKey(): String | Return RLP-encoded string of AccountKey in Account instance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingAccountKey(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of the account key in the Account instance. |
```

> ### Wallet Layer Class Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Wallet Layer
```

The `Wallet` layer allows the user to sign a message or a transaction through the Caver with a [Klaytn account].

![0811Wallet](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/89861019-c8b95300-dbdf-11ea-8aa6-30015a33100d.png)

> In the Wallet layer, an abstract class called `AbstractKeyring` is defined, and `SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring` and `RoleBasedKeyring` are implemented by extending AbstractKeyring. AbstractKeyring defines abstract methods that Keyring classes must implement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Wallet layer, an abstract class `AbstractKeyring` is defined, and `SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring` and `RoleBasedKeyring` are implemented by extending `AbstractKeyring`. The `AbstractKeyring` class defines abstract methods that Keyring classes must implement.
```

> `SingleKeyring` is a Keyring class that uses "only one private key", and `MultipleKeyring` is a Keyring class that uses "multiple private keys". `RoleBasedKeyring` is a Keyring class that uses "different private key(s) for each role", and the `keys` member variable is a 2D array in which keys to be used for each role are defined inside the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SingleKeyring` is a class that uses only one private key, and `MultipleKeyring` is a class that uses multiple private keys. `RoleBasedKeyring` is a class that uses different private key(s) for each role, and the `keys` member variable is a 2D array in which keys to be used for each role are defined.
```

> Each Keyring class uses the `PrivateKey` class, which has one private key as a member variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each keyring class uses the `PrivateKey` class, which has one private key as a member variable.
```

> `KeyringFactory` provides static methods for creating `SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring` or `RoleBasedKeyring`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KeyringFactory` provides static methods to create `SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring` or `RoleBasedKeyring`.
```

> `MessageSigned` is a structure that contains the result of signing a message and is used as a result of the `signMessage` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MessageSigned` is a structure that contains the result of signing a message, and it is used as a result of the `signMessage` function.
```

`SignatureData` is a structure that stores a signature.

`Keystore` is a class that contains encrypted keyring. The internally defined value differs depending on the keystore version, see [KIP-3](./kip-3.md).

> `KeyringContainer` is an "in-memory wallet" class that manages Keyring instances. Manage the Keyring instance using the address as the key value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KeyringContainer` is an "in-memory wallet" class that manages keyring instances. It manages the keyring instances based on their addresses.
```

#### PrivateKey

> `PrivateKey` is a class that contains a private key string. The private key to be used for each role in Keyring is defined as this `PrivateKey` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PrivateKey` is a class that contains a private key string.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| privateKey: String | The private key string. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: String): SignatureData | Signs the transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: String): SignatureData | Signs the transaction based on the transaction hash and chain id and returns the signature. |
```

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction based on the transaction hash and chain id and returns the signature. |
```

> | signMessage(messageHash: String): SignatureData | Signs the message. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signMessage(messageHash: String): SignatureData | Signs the message with the Klaytn-specific prefix and returns the signature. |
```

> | getPublicKey(compressed: Boolean): String | Returns public key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getPublicKey(compressed: Boolean): String | Returns the compressed public key string if compressed is true. It returns the uncompressed public key string otherwise. |
```

> | getDerivedAddress(): String | Returns derived address from private key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getDerivedAddress(): String | Returns the derived address from the private key string. |
```

#### AbstractKeyring

> `AbstractKeyring` is an abstract class that abstracts Keyring classes that store the account address and private key(s) to use. All Keyring classes are implemented by extending `AbstractKeyring`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AbstractKeyring` is an abstract class of keyring classes. It stores the account address and private key(s). All keyring classes extends the `AbstractKeyring` class.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| address: String | The address of the account. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: int, role: int): List&#60;SignatureData&#62; | Signs the transaction using key(s) defined in role. `sign` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: int, role: int): List&#60;SignatureData&#62; | Signs the transaction using the key(s) specified by the role, and it returns the signature. It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: int, role: int, index: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction using a key defined in role. `sign` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: int, role: int, index: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction using the key(s) specified by the role and the index, and it returns the signature. It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | signMessage(message: String, role: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message using key(s) defined in role. `signMessage` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signMessage(message: String, role: int): MessageSigned | Signs the transaction using the key(s) specified by the role, and it returns the signature. It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | signMessage(message: String, role: int, index: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message using a key defined in role. `signMessage` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signMessage(message: String, role: int, index: int): MessageSigned | Signs the transaction using the key(s) specified by the role and the index, and it returns the signature. It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | encrypt(password: String, options: Object): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance with keystore v4 format. `encrypt` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| encrypt(password: String, options: Object): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance in the [keystore v4 format](http://kips.klaytn.com/KIPs/kip-3). It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | copy(): AbstractKeyring | Returns a copied Keyring instance. `copy` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractKeyring, and must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| copy(): AbstractKeyring | Duplicates the Keyring instance and returns it. It is defined as an abstract method, and it must be implemented in all keyring classes that extend `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: String, role: int): List&#60;SignatureData&#62; | Signs the transaction using key(s) defined in role. Converts the type of chainId inputted as String into int and calls the sign function implemented in keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: String, role: int): List&#60;SignatureData&#62; | Signs the transaction using the key(s) specified by the role and returns the signatures. |
```

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Is chainId converted to int or big int?

Author: chainId will be converted inside of the singing logic.

> | sign(txHash: String, chainId: String, role: int, index: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction using a key defined in role. Converts the type of chainId inputted as String into int and calls the sign function implemented in keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(txHash: String, chainId: String, role: int, index: int): SignatureData | Signs the transaction using a key specified by the role and the index, and it returns the signature. |
```

> | getKlaytnWalletKey(): String | Returns KlaytnWalletKey string. getKlaytnWalletKey is implemented to throw exception by default in `AbstractKeyring`. In the case of `SingleKeyring` that can use KlaytnWalletKey format, getKlaytnWalletKey function must be overridden. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getKlaytnWalletKey(): String | Returns the KlaytnWalletKey string. It throws an exception by default in `AbstractKeyring`. |
```

Reviewer: What about other functions? I think all the abstract functions should throw an exception.

Author: Yes, if abstract function is not implemented by sub classes, then exception should be thrown.
But getKlaytnWalletKey function is not defined as an abstract function.
getKlaytnWalletKey is implemented in AbstractKeyring class to throw exception as a default. (Because only SingleKeyring need to handle this)

Reviewer: @jimni1222 
Okay. but the error message could be different.
"Not implemented" vs "not supported for this class"?

Author: We will unify the error message.

Defined as an abstract method, but if it is not implemented, "Not implemented" (caver-js only)

"Not supported for this class" when implemented to throw exception to abstract class as default because it is supported only in specific class

cc @sirano11

> | encrypt(password: String): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance with keystore v4 format. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| encrypt(password: String): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance in the keystore v4 format. |
```

Reviewer: Please locate closely with `encrypt(password: String, options: Object): Object`.
What's the difference between `encrypt(password: String, options: Object): Object` and `encrypt(password: String): Object`?

> | encryptV3(password: String): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance with keystore v3 format. encryptV3 is implemented to throw exception by default in `AbstractKeyring`. In the case of `SingleKeyring` that can encrypt to keystore v3, encryptV3 function must be overridden. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| encryptV3(password: String): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance in the keystore v3 format. |
```

> | encryptV3(password: String, options: Object): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance with keystore v3 format. encryptV3 is implemented to throw exception by default in `AbstractKeyring`. In the case of `SingleKeyring` that can encrypt to keystore v3, encryptV3 function must be overridden. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| encryptV3(password: String, options: Object): Object | Encrypts a Keyring instance with keystore v3 format. |
```

Reviewer: Need to specify the difference between `encryptV3(password: String): Object` and `encryptV3(password: String, options: Object): Object`.

> | isDecoupled(): Boolean | Returns true if keyring has decoupled key. isDecoupled is implemented to return "false" by default in `AbstractKeyring`. In the case of SingleKeyring that can be used by coupled keyring, the isDecoupled function must be overridden. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| isDecoupled(): Boolean | Returns true if keyring has a decoupled key. |
```

Is there any case that this function returns false for the sub classes?

Author: SingleKeyring can return `false` if an address is derived from private key.

Reviewer: Okay. Then the change is sufficient.

> #### SingleKeyrings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### SingleKeyring
```

> `SingleKeyring` is a class that stores the address of the account and a private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SingleKeyring` is a class that stores the account address and a private key.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | key: PrivateKey | An instance of private key containing one private key inside. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| key: PrivateKey | An instance of `PrivateKey` containing one private key. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getPublicKey(): String | Returns public key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getPublicKey(): String | Returns the public key string. |
```

> | getKeyByRole(role): PrivateKey | Returns keys by role. SingleKeyring always returns a same key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getKeyByRole(role): PrivateKey | Returns the keys specified by the role. SingleKeyring always returns a same key. |
```

> | toAccount(): Account | Returns an instance of Account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| toAccount(): Account | Returns an Account instance. |
```

#### MultipleKeyring

> `MultipleKeyring` is a class that stores the address of the account and the multiple private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MultipleKeyring` is a class that stores an account address and multiple private keys.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | keys: List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | An array of PrivateKey instances containing one private key inside. `keys` can contain up to 10 PrivateKey instances. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| keys: List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | An array of PrivateKey instances containing one private key. `keys` can contain up to ten PrivateKey instances. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getPublicKey(): List&#60;String&#62; | Returns public key strings. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getPublicKey(): List&#60;String&#62; | Returns the public key strings. |
```

> | getKeyByRole(role): List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | Returns keys by role. SingleKeyring always returns same keys. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getKeyByRole(role): List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | Returns the keys specified by the role. |
```

> | toAccount(): Account | Returns an instance of Account. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| toAccount(): Account | Returns an Account instance. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used. |
```

> | toAccount(options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Returns an instance of Account. It throws an exception if the options is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| toAccount(options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): Account | Returns an Account instance with the given options. It throws an exception if the options is invalid. |
```

#### RoleBasedKeyring

> `RoleBasedKeyring` is a class that stores the address of the account and the private keys to be used for each role in the form of an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RoleBasedKeyring` is a class that stores the account address and the private keys for each role in the form of an array.
```

> `RoleBasedKeyring` defines keys which is implemented as a two-dimensional array (empty keys looks like [ [], [], [] ]) that can include multiple keys for each role. The first array element defines the private key(s) for roleTransactionKey, the second defines private key(s) for roleAccountUpdateKey, and the third defines the private key(s) for roleFeePayerKey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RoleBasedKeyring` defines keys which are implemented as a two-dimensional array (empty keys looks like [ [], [], [] ]) that can include multiple keys for each role. The each array element defines the private key(s) for roleTransactionKey, roleAccountUpdateKey, and roleFeePayerKey, respectively.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | keys: List&#60;List&#60;PrivateKey&#62;&#62; | A two-dimensional array that defines the keys used for each role. Each role includes PrivateKey instance(s). The first element in this is roleTransactionKey. The second element is roleAccountUpdateKey. The last element is roleFeePayerKey. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| keys: List&#60;List&#60;PrivateKey&#62;&#62; | A two-dimensional array that defines the keys used for each role. Each role includes PrivateKey instance(s). The each array element defines the private key(s) for roleTransactionKey, roleAccountUpdateKey, and roleFeePayerKey, respectively. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getPublicKey(): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Returns public key strings by roles. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getPublicKey(): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Returns the public key strings for all roles. |
```

> | getKeyByRole(role): List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | Returns keys by role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getKeyByRole(role): List&#60;PrivateKey&#62; | Returns the private keys for all roles. |
```

> | toAccount(): Account | Returns an instance of Account. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| toAccount(): Account | Returns an Account instance. A default option with a threshold of 1 and a weight of 1 for each key will be used for each role. |
```

> | toAccount(options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Returns an instance of Account. It throws an exception if the options is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| toAccount(options: List&#60;WeightedMultiSigOptions&#62;): Account | Returns an Account instance with the given options. It throws an exception if the options is invalid. |
```

#### SignatureData

> `SignatureData` is a class that contain a signature string inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SignatureData` is a class that contains a signature string.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| v: String | ECDSA recovery id. |
| r: String | ECDSA signature r. |
| s: String | ECDSA signature s. |

##### Method description

None

#### MessageSigned

`MessageSigned` stores the result of signing a message.

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| messageHash: String | The hashed message string. |
| signatureData: List<SignatureData> | An array of signatures. |

> | message: String | The message to sign. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| message: String | The original message used for signing. |
```

##### Method description

None

#### KeyringFactory

> `KeyringFactory` provides functions to create Keyring (SingleKeyring, MultipleKeyring, RoleBasedKeyring) instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KeyringFactory` provides functions to create Keyring (SingleKeyring, MultipleKeyring, and RoleBasedKeyring) instances.
```

##### Variable description

None

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| generate(): SingleKeyring | Generates a SingleKeyring instance with a randomly generated private key. |

> | generate(entropy: String): SingleKeyring | Generates a SingleKeyring instance with a randomly generated private key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generate(entropy: String): SingleKeyring | Generates a SingleKeyring instance with a randomly generated private key based on the entropy. |
```

| generateSingleKey(): String | Generates a private key string. |

> | generateSingleKey(entropy: String): String | Generates a private key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generateSingleKey(entropy: String): String | Generates a private key string based on the entropy. |
```

| generateMultipleKey(num: int): List&#60;String&#62; | Generates private key strings. |

> | generateMultipleKey(num: int, entropy: String): List&#60;String&#62; | Generates private key strings. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generateMultipleKeys(num: int, entropy: String): List&#60;String&#62; | Generates private key strings based on the entropy. |
```

Reviewer: In caver-js, it seems like generateMultipleKey's'?

> | generateRoleBasedKey(numArr: List&#60;int&#62;): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Generates a 2D array of which each array element contains keys defined for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generateRoleBasedKeys(numArr: List&#60;int&#62;): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Generates and returns private keys for each role. The number of keys for each role is defined in numArr. |
```

> | generateRoleBasedKey(numArr: List&#60;int&#62;, entropy: String): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Generates a 2D array of which each array element contains keys defined for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generateRoleBasedKey(numArr: List&#60;int&#62;, entropy: String): List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62; | Generates and returns private keys for each role based on the entropy. The number of keys for each role is defined in numArr. |
```

> | create(address: String, key: String): SingleKeyring | Creates a SingleKeyring instance with an address and a private key string. It throws an exception if the address string or private key string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| create(address: String, key: String): SingleKeyring | Creates and returns a SingleKeyring instance with an address and a private key string. It throws an exception if the address string or private key string is invalid. |
```

| create(address: String, keys: String[]): MultipleKeyring | Creates a MultipleKeyring instance with an address and private key strings. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |
| create(address: String, roleBasedKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): RoleBasedKeyring | Creates a RoleBasedKeyring instance with an address and private key strings by roles. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |
| createFromPrivateKey(key: String): SingleKeyring | Creates a SingleKeyring instance from a private key string or a KlaytnWalletKey. It throws an exception if the private key string is invalid. |
| createFromKlaytnWalletKey(klaytnWalletKey: String): SingleKeyring | Creates a SingleKeyring instance from a KlaytnWalletKey string. It throws an exception if the KlaytnWalletKey is invalid. |

> | createWithSingleKey(address: String, key: String): SingleKeyring | Creates a SingleKeyring instance from an address and a private key string. It throws an exception if the address string or private key string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithSingleKey(address: String, key: String): SingleKeyring | Creates a SingleKeyring instance from an address and a private key string. It throws an exception if the address string or the private key string is invalid. |
```

> | createWithMultipleKey(address: String, keys: String[]): MultipleKeyring | Creates a MultipleKeyring instance from an address and private key strings. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithMultipleKey(address: String, keys: String[]): MultipleKeyring | Creates a MultipleKeyring instance from an address and the private key strings. It throws an exception if the address string or the private key strings are invalid. |
```

> | createWithRoleBasedKey(address: String, roleBasedKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): RoleBasedKeyring | Creates a RoleBasedKeyring instance from an address and a 2D array of which each array element contains keys defined for each role. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| createWithRoleBasedKey(address: String, roleBasedKeys: List&#60;String[]&#62;): RoleBasedKeyring | Creates a RoleBasedKeyring instance from an address and a 2D array of which each array element contains keys defined for each role. It throws an exception if the address string or the private key strings are invalid. |
```

> | decrypt(keystore: Object, password: String): Keyring | Decrypts a keystore v3 or v4 JSON and returns the decrypted Keyring instance. It throws an exception if the decrypting is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decrypt(keystore: Object, password: String): Keyring | Decrypts a keystore v3 or v4 JSON and returns the decrypted keyring instance. It throws an exception if the decryption is failed. |
```

#### KeyringContainer

> `KeyringContainer` is a class that manages SingleKeyring, MultipleKeyring, and RoleBasedKeyring instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KeyringContainer` is a class that contains SingleKeyring, MultipleKeyring, and RoleBasedKeyring instances based on the address.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | length: int | The number of keyrings in keyringContainer. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| length: int | The number of keyrings in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

| addressKeyringMap: Map<String, AbstractKeyring> | A Map that has an account address as a key and a Keyring instance corresponding to that address as a value. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | generate(num: int, entropy: String): List&#60;String&#62; | Generates instances of SingleKeyring in the keyringContainer with randomly generated private keys. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| generate(num: int, entropy: String): List&#60;String&#62; | Generates `num` SingleKeyring instances and stores them in the keyringContainer. The randomness of the private keys are determined by the given entropy. |
```

> | add(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractKeyring | Adds an instance of keyring to the keyringContainer. It throws an exception if the newly given keyring has the same address with one of the keyrings that already exist in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| add(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractKeyring | Adds the given keyring instance to the `KeyringContainer` instance. It throws an exception if the address of the given keyring instance already exists in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | newKeyring(address: String, privateKeyString: String): AbstractKeyring | Creates a keyring instance with given parameters and adds it to the `caver.wallet`. If key is a private key string, a SingleKeyring instance that uses a single private key is created. The keyring created is added to `caver.wallet`. It throws an exception if the address string or private key string is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| newKeyring(address: String, privateKeyString: String): AbstractKeyring | Creates a `SingleKeyring` instance with given parameters and adds it to the `KeyringContainer` instance. It returns the newly added keyring instance. It throws an exception if the address or private key string is invalid. |
```

> | newKeyring(address: String, privateKeyArray: List&#60;String&#62;): AbstractKeyring | Creates a keyring instance with given parameters and adds it to the `caver.wallet`. If key is an array containing private key strings, a MultipleKeyring instance that use multiple private keys is created. The keyring created is added to `caver.wallet`. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| newKeyring(address: String, privateKeyArray: List&#60;String&#62;): AbstractKeyring | Creates a `MultipleKeyring` instance with given parameters and adds it to the `KeyringContainer` instance. It returns the newly added keyring instance. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |
```

> | newKeyring(address: String, roleBasedPrivateKeyArray: List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62;): AbstractKeyring | Creates a keyring instance with given parameters and adds it to the `caver.wallet`. If key is a 2D array of which each element contains the private key(s) to be used for each role, a RoleBasedKeyring instance is created. The keyring created is added to `caver.wallet`. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| newKeyring(address: String, roleBasedPrivateKeyArray: List&#60;List&#60;String&#62;&#62;): AbstractKeyring | Creates a `RoleBasedKeyring` instance with given parameters and adds it to the `KeyringContainer` instance. It returns the newly added keyring instance. It throws an exception if the address string or private key strings are invalid. |
```

> | updateKeyring(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractKeyring | Updates the keyring inside the keyringContainer. It throws an exception if the matching keyring is not found. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| updateKeyring(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractKeyring | Replaces the keyring instance having the same address with the given keyring in the parameter. It throws an exception if the matching keyring is not found. |
```

| getKeyring(address: String): AbstractKeyring | Returns the keyring instance corresponding to the address. |

> | sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method will use all the private keys. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method will use all the private keys in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

Reviewer: @jimni1222 What happens if the address and the transaction sender are different?

Author: An exception will be thrown.

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Then, please add one more sentence.
```
It also throws an exception if `address` is different from the sender address of `transaction`.
```

Author: I modified the last sentence :)

> | sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method uses the private key at the index in the keyring. It throws an exception if the matched keyring cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance |
```

> | sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method will use all the private keys. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method will use all the private keys. When obtaining the transaction hash, `hasher` is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index the in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |
```

> | sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method uses the private key at `index` in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, `hasher` is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method will use all the private keys. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method will use all the private keys in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in  the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method uses the private key at `index` in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method will use all the private keys. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends signatures in the transaction object using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method will use all the private keys. When obtaining the transaction hash, `hasher` is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the keyring in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, the function transmitted by the user as a parameter is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(address: String, transaction: AbstractTransaction, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer of the transaction and appends a signature in the transaction object using the the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method uses the private key at `index` in the keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, `hasher` is used. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signMessage(address: String, data: String, role: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message with Klaytn-specific prefix using the keyring stored in keyringContainer. This method will use all the private keys. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signMessage(address: String, data: String, role: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message with the Klaytn-specific prefix using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method will use all the private keys in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | signMessage(address: String, data: String, role: int, index: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message with Klaytn-specific prefix using the keyring stored in keyringContainer. This method uses the private key at the index th in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in `caver.wallet`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signMessage(address: String, data: String, role: int, index: int): MessageSigned | Signs the message with Klaytn-specific prefix using the keyring associated with the given address in the `KeyringContainer` instance. This method uses the private key at `index` in the keyring. It throws an exception if the keyring to be used for signing cannot be found in the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> | remove(address: String): Boolean | Deletes the keyring from keyringContainer whose address matches the address of the given keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| remove(address: String): Boolean | Deletes the keyring associated with the given address from the `KeyringContainer` instance. |
```

> ### Transaction Layer Class Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transaction Layer
```

> The `Transaction` layer provides transaction-related functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Transaction` layer provides classes related to Klaytn transactions.
```

![0811Transaction](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/89860534-a410ab80-dbde-11ea-9bc1-a69991482d25.png)

> `AbstractTransaction`, `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` and `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTrasnaction` abstract classes are defined in the Transaction layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Abstract classes (`AbstractTransaction`, `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` and `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTrasnaction`) are defined in the Transaction layer to declare common attributes and methods.
```

> `AbstractTransaction` defines variables and methods commonly used in all transactions. In addition, abstract methods that must be implemented in classes that extend AbstractTransaction are also defined. `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` extends AbstractTransaction, and AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction defines variables and methods commonly used in Fee Delegation and Partial Fee Delegation transactions. `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` extends AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction, and AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction defines variables commonly used in Partial Fee Delegation transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AbstractTransaction` defines variables and methods commonly used in all transactions. In addition, abstract methods that must be implemented in classes that extend this class are also defined. `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` extends `AbstractTransaction`, and it defines variables and methods commonly used in fee delegation and partial fee delegation transactions. `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` extends `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`, and it defines variables commonly used in partial fee delegation transactions.
```

> Among the transaction types used in the Klatyn, [Basic transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractTransaction`. [Fee Delegation transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`, [Partial Fee Delegation transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among the transaction types used in Klaytn, [Basic transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractTransaction`. [Fee delegation transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`, [Partial fee delegation transactions] are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction`.
```

> The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the decode function implemented in each Transaction class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the `decode` method implemented in each transaction class.
```

> `TransactionHasher` is a class that calculates the hash of a transaction. It provides a function that calculates a hash when the sender (from of the transaction) signs a transaction and a function that calculates a hash when the fee payer signs a transaction. TransactionHasher provided by caver is implemented based on [Klaytn Design - Transactions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TransactionHasher` is a class that calculates the hash of a transaction. It provides a function that calculates a hash when a transaction is signed as a sender or a fee payer. It is implemented based on [Klaytn Design - Transactions].
```

#### AbstractTransaction

> `AbstractTransaction` is an abstract class that abstracts [Basic Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic) classes. All Basic Transaction classes are implemented by extending `AbstractTransaction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AbstractTransaction` is an abstract class that represents transaction types defined in [Basic Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic). All basic transaction classes extends `AbstractTransaction`.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| type: String | The type string of the transaction. |
| from: String | The address of the sender. |

> | nonce: String | A value used to uniquely identify a sender’s transaction. If omitted when create a transaction, [klay_getTransactionCount](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/account#klay_gettransactioncount) will be used to set nonce. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| nonce: String | A value used to uniquely identify a sender’s transaction. If omitted when creating a transaction, [klay_getTransactionCount](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/account#klay_gettransactioncount) will be used to set an appropriate nonce. |
```

> | gas: String | The maximum amount of transaction fee the transaction is allowed to use. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gas: String | The maximum amount of the transaction fee allowed to use. |
```

> | gasPrice: String | A multiplier to get how much the sender will pay in tokens. If omitted when create a transaction, [klay_gasPrice](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/config#klay_gasprice) will be used to set gasPrice. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gasPrice: String | A multiplier to get how much the sender will pay in KLAY. If omitted when create a transaction, [klay_gasPrice](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/config#klay_gasprice) will be used to set this value. |
```

> | signatures: String | An array of signatures. The result of signing the transaction is appended to this signatures. When appending a signature, duplicate signatures are not appended. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signatures: List<String> | An array of signatures. The result of signing the transaction is appended to this signatures. When appending a signature, duplicate signatures are not appended. |
```

> | chainId: String | The chain id of the Klaytn network. If omitted when create a transaction, [klay_chainID](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/config#klay_chainid) will be used to set chainId. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| chainId: String | The chain id of the Klaytn network. If omitted when creating a transaction, [klay_chainID](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/json-rpc/api-references/klay/config#klay_chainid) will be used to set this value. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string. `getRLPEncoding` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractTransaction, and must be implemented in all transaction classes that extend `AbstractTransaction`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string. It is defined as an abstract method, and must be implemented in all transaction classes that extend `AbstractTransaction`. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignautre(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. For example, in the case of ValueTransfer, if SigRLP is `encode([encode([type, nonce, gasPrice, gas, to, value, from]), chainid, 0, 0])`, among them, the RLP-encoded values of the transaction required for signing is `encoded([type, nonce, gasPrice, gas, to, value, from])`. This function is used in getRLPEncodingForSignature or getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature function. `getCommonRLPEncodingForSignautre` is defined as an "abstract method" in AbstractTransaction, and must be implemented in all transaction classes that extend `AbstractTransaction`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. For example, in the case of value transfer transactions, if SigRLP is `encode([encode([type, nonce, gasPrice, gas, to, value, from]), chainid, 0, 0])`, among them, the RLP-encoded values of the transaction required for signing is `encode([type, nonce, gasPrice, gas, to, value, from])`. This function is used in getRLPEncodingForSignature or getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature function. It is defined as an abstract method, and must be implemented in all transaction classes that extend `AbstractTransaction`. |
```

> | sign(keyString: String): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the private key (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends signatures in the transaction object. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyString: String): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with the private key (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends signatures to the transaction object. |
```

> | sign(keyString: String, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the private key (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends signatures in the transaction object. The hasher function will be used when get the hash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyString: String, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with the private key (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends signatures to the transaction object. The `hasher` function will be used when getting the hash of a transaction. |
```

> | sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the private keys in the keyring and appends signatures in the transaction object. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with all the private keys in the given keyring and appends signatures to the transaction object. |
```

> | sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the a private key in the keyring and appends signatures in the transaction object. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with the private key specified by the given keyring and index. It appends the result signature into the transaction object. |
```

> | sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the private keys in the keyring and appends signatures in the transaction object. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with the private keys in the given keyring. When obtaining the transaction hash, `hasher` is used. |
```

> | sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction sender with the a private key in the keyring and appends signatures in the transaction object. The hasher function will be used when get the hash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| sign(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractTransaction | Signs the transaction as a sender with the a private key specified by the given keyring and index. It appends signatures into the transaction object. The `hasher` function will be used when getting the transaction hash. |
```

> | appendSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends signature to the transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends the given signature to the transaction instance. |
```

> | appendSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends signatures to the transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends the given signatures to the transaction instance. |
```

> | combineSignedRawTransactions(rlpEncoded: List&#60;String&#62;): String | Collects signs in each RLP-encoded transaction string in the given array, combines them with the transaction instance, and returns an RLP-encoded transaction string which includes all signs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| combineSignedRawTransactions(rlpEncoded: List&#60;String&#62;): String | Collects signatures in RLP-encoded transaction strings in the given array, combines them into this transaction instance, and returns an RLP-encoded transaction string which includes all signatures. If the contents of the transaction are different from this transaction instance, it fails. |
```

> | getTransactionHash(): String | Returns a transactionHash. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getTransactionHash(): String | Returns the transaction hash of this transaction instance. |
```

> | getSenderTxHash(): String | Returns a senderTxHash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getSenderTxHash(): String | Returns a senderTxHash of this transaction instance. |
```

| getRawTransaction(): String | Returns a rawTransaction string (an RLP-encoded transaction string). This function is same with transaction.getRLPEncoding. |

> | getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction sender. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns a RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction sender. |
```

> | getRawTransaction(): String | Returns a rawTransaction string (an RLP-encoded transaction string). This function is same with transaction.getRLPEncoding. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRawTransaction(): String | Returns a rawTransaction string (an RLP-encoded transaction string). This function is identical to `getRLPEncoding()`. |
```

> | getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction sender. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string to make the signature of the sender. |
```

> | fillTransaction(): void | Fills in the optional variables in transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fillTransaction(): void | Fills in the optional variables (nonce, gasPrice, and chainId) in transaction. |
```

#### AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction

> `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` is an abstract class that abstracts [Fee Delegation Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation) classes. `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` is implemented by extending `AbstractTransaction`. All Fee Delegation Transaction classes are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` is an abstract class that represents transaction types defined in [fee delegation transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation). `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction` is implemented by extending `AbstractTransaction`. All fee delegation transaction classes are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| feePayer: String | The address of the fee payer. |

> | feePayerSignatures: String | An array of feePayerSignatures. The result of signing the transaction as a fee payer is appended to this feePayerSignatures. When appending a feePayerSignatures, duplicate feePayerSignatures are not appended. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| feePayerSignatures: List<String> | An array of signatures of fee payers. The result of signing the transaction as a fee payer is appended to this array. If the duplicated fee payer signature is added, it fails. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | signAsFeePayer(keyString: String): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with a private key string (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyString: String): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with a private key string (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends the fee payer signature into the transaction object. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(keyString: String, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with a private key string (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. The hasher function will be used when get the hash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyString: String, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with a private key string (or KlaytnWalletKey) and appends the fee payer signature in the transaction object. The `hasher` function will be used when getting the hash of the transaction. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with private keys in the keyring and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with private keys in `keyring` and appends the fee payer signatures in the transaction object. If the fee payer address of this transaction instance differs from the address of `keyring`, it throws an exception. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with a private key in the keyring and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with a private key specified by `keyring` and `index`. It appends the fee payer signatures into the transaction object. If the fee payer address of this transaction instance differs from the address of `keyring`, it throws an exception. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with private keys in the keyring and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. The hasher function will be used when get the hash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with private keys in `keyring` and appends the fee payer signature into the transaction object. The `hasher` function will be used when getting the hash of the transaction. If the fee payer address of this transaction instance differs from the address of `keyring`, it throws an exception. |
```

> | signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a transaction fee payer with a private key in the keyring and appends feePayerSignatures in the transaction object with the private key(s) in the keyring. The hasher function will be used when get the hash of transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| signAsFeePayer(keyring: AbstractKeyring, index: int, hasher: Function): AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction | Signs the transaction as a fee payer with a private key specified by `keyring` and `index. It appends the fee payer signature into the transaction object. The `hasher` function will be used when getting the hash of the transaction. If the fee payer address of this transaction instance differs from the address of `keyring`, it throws an exception. |
```

> | appendFeePayerSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends feePayerSignatures to the transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendFeePayerSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends a fee payer signature to the transaction instance. |
```

> | appendFeePayerSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends feePayerSignatures to the tr  ansaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendFeePayerSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends fee payer signatures to the transaction instance. |
```

| combineSignedRawTransactions(rlpEncoded: String): String | Collects signs in each RLP-encoded transaction string in the given array, combines them with the transaction instance, and returns an RLP-encoded transaction string which includes all signs. |

> | getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction fee payer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature(): String | Returns a RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction fee payer. |
```

> | combineSignedRawTransactions(rlpEncoded: String): String | Collects signs in each RLP-encoded transaction string in the given array, combines them with the transaction instance, and returns an RLP-encoded transaction string which includes all signs. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| combineSignedRawTransactions(rlpEncoded: List<String>): String | Collects signatures in RLP-encoded transaction strings in the given array, combines them into this transaction instance, and returns an RLP-encoded transaction string which includes all signatures. If the contents of the transaction are different from this transaction instance, it fails. |
```

> | getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction fee payer. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingForFeePayerSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string to make the signature of the fee payer. |
```

#### AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction

> `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` is an abstract class that abstracts [Partial Fee Delegation Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/partial-fee-delegation) classes. `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` is implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`. All Partial Fee Delegation Transaction classes are implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` is an abstract class that represents transaction types defined in [partial fee delegation transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/partial-fee-delegation). `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction` is implemented by extending `AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction`. All partial fee delegation transaction classes extends `AbstractFeeDelegatedWithRatioTransaction`.
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | feeRatio: String | The ratio that constitutes the proportion of the transaction fee the fee payer will be burdened with. The valid range of this ratio is between 1 and 99. The ratio of 0, or 100 and above are not allowed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| feeRatio: String | The ratio that constitutes the proportion of the transaction fee the fee payer will be burdened with. The valid range of this ratio is between 1 and 99. The ratio of negatives, 0, or 100 and above are not allowed. |
```

##### Method description

None

#### LegacyTransaction

`LegacyTransaction` represents a [legacy transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypelegacytransaction). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value or smart contact address if a legacy transaction execute smart contract. If a legacy transaction deploys a smart contract, to with the default value "0x". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value or a smart contact address if a legacy transaction executes smart contract. If a legacy transaction deploys a smart contract, this value should be set to empty or null. |
```

> | input: String | Data attached to the transaction, used for smart contract deployment/execution. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data attached to the transaction. It is used for smart contract deployment/execution. |
```

| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): LegacyTransaction | Decodes an RLP-encoded LegacyTransaction string, a raw transaction, and returns a LegacyTransaction instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): LegacyTransaction | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of LegacyTransaction and returns a `LegacyTransaction` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | appendSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends signature to the transaction. LegacyTransaction can only have one signature. It throws an exception if multiple signatures are assigned to a `signatures`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendSignatures(sig: SignatureData): void | Appends signature to the transaction. LegacyTransaction can only have one signature. It throws an exception if the transaction instance has a signature already. |
```

| appendSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends signature to the transaction. LegacyTransaction can only have one signature. It throws an exception if multiple signatures are assigned to a `signatures`. |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded LegacyTransaction string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns a RLP-encoded LegacyTransaction string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | appendSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends signature to the transaction. LegacyTransaction can only have one signature. It throws an exception if multiple signatures are assigned to a `signatures`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| appendSignatures(sig: List&#60;SignatureData&#62;): void | Appends signature to the transaction. LegacyTransaction can only have one signature. It throws an exception if multiple signatures are given. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded LegacyTransaction string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the transaction sender. Since the method of obtaining RLP-encoding for signature of LegacyTransaction is different from other transaction types, getRLPEncodingForSignature should be overrided. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded transaction string for making the signature of the sender. Since the method of obtaining the RLP-encoding string for signature of LegacyTransaction is different from other transaction types, getRLPEncodingForSignature should be overridden. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### ValueTransfer

`ValueTransfer` represents a [value transfer transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypevaluetransfer). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value. |
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): ValueTransfer | Decodes an RLP-encoded ValueTransfer string, a raw transaction, and returns a ValueTransfer instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): ValueTransfer | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of ValueTransfer and returns a `ValueTransfer` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded ValueTransfer string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### ValueTransferMemo

`ValueTransferMemo` represents a [value transfer memo transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypevaluetransfermemo). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value. |
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. |

> | input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The message should be passed to this attribute. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The message can be passed to this attribute. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): ValueTransferMemo | Decodes an RLP-encoded ValueTransferMemo string, a raw transaction, and returns a ValueTransferMemo instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): ValueTransferMemo | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of ValueTransferMemo and returns a `ValueTransferMemo` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded ValueTransferMemo string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### AccountUpdate

> `AccountUpdate` represents a [account update transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypeaccountupdate). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AccountUpdate` represents an [account update transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypeaccountupdate). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).
```

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | account: Account | An [Account](#account) instance that contains the information needed to update your account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| account: Account | An [Account](#account) instance that contains the information needed to update the given account. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): AccountUpdate | Decodes an RLP-encoded AccountUpdate string, a raw transaction, and returns a AccountUpdate instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): AccountUpdate | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountUpdate and returns a AccountUpdate instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded AccountUpdate string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### SmartContractDeploy

`SmartContractDeploy` represents a [smart contract deploy transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypesmartcontractdeploy). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | to: String | Address to which the smart contract is deployed. Currently, this value cannot be defined by user, so to should be defined with the default value "0x". Specifying the address will be supported in the future. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| to: String | An Address to which the smart contract is deployed. Currently, this value cannot be defined by user, so it must be defined with the default value "0x". Specifying the address will be supported in the future. |
```

> | value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred to and stored in the balance of the smart contract address when the contract is initialized. If value is not defined by user, value should be defined with the default value "0x0". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. If the value is not defined by user, the value is defined with the default value "0x0". |
```

> | input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The byte code of the smart contract to be deployed and its arguments. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data attached to the transaction. It contains the byte code of the smart contract to be deployed and its arguments. |
```

> | humanReadable: String | This must be "false" since human-readable address is not supported yet. If humanReadable is not defined by user, humanReadable should be defined with the default value "false". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| humanReadable: String | This must be "false" since human-readable address is not supported yet. If the value is not defined by user, it is defined with the default value "false". |
```

> | codeFormat: String | The code format of smart contract code. The supported value, for now, is "EVM" only. If codeFormat is not defined by user, codeFormat should be defined with the default value "EVM". This value is converted to hex string after the assignment(e.g> EVM is converted to 0x0) internally. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| codeFormat: String | The code format of the smart contract. The supported value, for now, is "EVM" only. If the value is not defined by user, it is defined with the default value "EVM". This value is converted to a hex string after the assignment (e.g., EVM is converted to 0x0). |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): SmartContractDeploy | Decodes an RLP-encoded SmartContractDeploy string, a raw transaction, and returns a SmartContractDeploy instance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): SmartContractDeploy | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of SmartContractDeploy and returns a `SmartContractDeploy` instance. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded SmartContractDeploy string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### SmartContractExecution

`SmartContractExecution` represents a [smart contract execution transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypesmartcontractexecution). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| to: String | The address of the smart contract account to be executed. |

> | value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. If value is not defined by user, value should be defined with the default value "0x0". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. If the value is not defined by user, the value is defined with the default value "0x0". |
```

> | input: String | Data attached to the transaction, used for transaction execution. The input is an encoded string that indicates a function to call and parameters to be passed to this function. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data attached to the transaction, used for transaction execution. The input is an encoded string that indicates a function to call and parameters to be passed. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): SmartContractExecution | Decodes an RLP-encoded SmartContractExecution string, a raw transaction, and returns a SmartContractExecution instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): SmartContractExecution | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of SmartContractExecution and returns a `SmartContractExecution` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded SmartContractExecution string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### Cancel

`Cancel` represents a [cancel transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypecancel). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

None

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): Cancel | Decodes an RLP-encoded Cancel string, a raw transaction, and returns a Cancel instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): Cancel | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of Cancel and returns a `Cancel` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded Cancel string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### ChainDataAnchoring

`ChainDataAnchoring` represents a [chain data anchoring transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/basic#txtypechaindataanchoring). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractTransaction](#abstracttransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | input: String | Data of the service chain. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data to be anchored. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): ChainDataAnchoring | Decodes an RLP-encoded ChainDataAnchoring string, a raw transaction, and returns a ChainDataAnchoring instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): ChainDataAnchoring | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of ChainDataAnchoring and returns a `ChainDataAnchoring` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded ChainDataAnchoring string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### FeeDelegatedValueTransfer

`FeeDelegatedValueTransfer` represents a [fee delegated value transfer transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation#txtypefeedelegatedvaluetransfer). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction](#abstractfeedelegatedtransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value. |
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedValueTransfer | Decodes an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedValueTransfer string, a raw transaction, and returns a FeeDelegatedValueTransfer instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedValueTransfer | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of FeeDelegatedValueTransfer and returns a `FeeDelegatedValueTransfer` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedValueTransfer string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo

`FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo` represents a [fee delegated value transfer memo transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation#txtypefeedelegatedvaluetransfermemo). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction](#abstractfeedelegatedtransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| to: String | The account address that will receive the transferred value. |
| value: String | The amount of KLAY in peb to be transferred. |

> | input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The message should be passed to this attribute. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The message can be passed to this attribute. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo | Decodes an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo string, a raw transaction, and returns a FeeDelegatedValueTransfer instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo and returns a `FeeDelegatedValueTransfer` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): Stirng | Returns an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedValueTransferMemo string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): Stirng | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate

`FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` represents a [fee delegated account update transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation#txtypefeedelegatedaccountupdate). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction](#abstractfeedelegatedtransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | account: Account | An [Account](#account) instance that contains the information needed to update your account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| account: Account | An [Account](#account) instance that contains the information needed to update the given account. |
```

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate | Decodes an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate string, a raw transaction, and returns a FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate and returns a `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of the transaction instance. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

#### FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy

`FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy` represents a [fee delegated smart contract deploy transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions/fee-delegation#txtypefeedelegatedsmartcontractdeploy). This class is implemented by extending [AbstractFeeDelegatedTransaction](#abstractfeedelegatedtransaction).

##### Variable description

| Variable | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | to: String | Address to which the smart contract is deployed. Currently, this value cannot be defined by user, so to should be defined with the default value "0x". Specifying the address will be supported in the future. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| to: String | An address to which the smart contract is deployed. Currently, this value cannot be defined by user, so it must be defined with the default value "0x". Specifying the address will be supported in the future. |
```

| input: String | Data attached to the transaction. The byte code of the smart contract to be deployed and its arguments. |
| humanReadable: String | This must be "false" since human-readable address is not supported yet. If humanReadable is not defined by user, humanReadable should be defined with the default value "false". |
| codeFormat: String | The code format of smart contract code. The supported value, for now, is "EVM" only. If codeFormat is not defined by user, codeFormat should be defined with the default value "EVM". This value is converted to hex string after the assignment(e.g> EVM is converted to 0x0) internally. |

##### Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncoded: String): FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy | Decodes an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy string, a raw transaction, and returns a FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded FeeDelegatedSmartContractDeploy string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

> | getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes and returns the values needed to sign each transaction. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getCommonRLPEncodingForSignature(): String | Encodes the values needed to sign the transaction and returns the RLP-encoded string. It throws an exception if the variables required for encoding are not defined. |
```

![0811Contract](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/89860622-de7a4880-dbde-11ea-9986-3af7ae595150.png)

The `Contract` class makes it easy to interact with smart contracts based on ABI. Also, if you pass byte code and constructor parameters while calling the deploy method, you can use the Contract instance to deploy the smart contract to Klaytn. The Contract class processes the ABI so that the user can easily call the smart contract function through a member variable called `methods`.

The `ABI` class provides functions to encode and decode parameters using the ABI. The `Contract` class encodes and decodes the parameters required for smart contract deployment and execution using the functions provided by the ABI. If the user wants to create a transaction to deploy or execute a smart contract, he can create `input` using functions provided by the ABI.

> The `KIP7` class provides the functions to interact with [KIP-7] token contracts on Klaytn. This a class allows users to easily

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `KIP7` class provides the functions to interact with [KIP-7] token contracts on Klaytn. This class allows users to easily
```

deploy and execute [KIP-7] token contracts on Klaytn. `KIP7` maps all functions defined in [KIP-7] and provides them as class methods.

> The `KIP17` class provides the functions to interact with [KIP-17] token contracts on Klaytn. This a class allows users to easily

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `KIP17` class provides the functions to interact with [KIP-17] token contracts on Klaytn. This class allows users to easily
```

| signature: String | The [function signature](https://docs.klaytn.com/bapp/sdk/caver-js/api-references/caver.contract#cf-function-signature-function-selector) (function selector). The first four bytes of the input data for specifying the function to be called (or executed). It is the first (left, high-order in big-endian) four bytes of the Keccak-256 (SHA-3) hash of the signature of the function. |
| nextMethods: List&#60;ContractMethod&#62; | nextMethods stores functions with the same name implemented in smart contracts. If the parameter passed by the user is different from the input of this contractMethod, it traverses the contractMethods defined in nextMethods to find the contractMethod to be called. |

- Method description

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| call(argumetns: List&#60;any&#62;, callObject: Object): any | Call a "constant" method and execute its smart contract method in the Klaytn Virtual Machine without sending any transaction. See [klay_call] for more details about callObject. |

> | send(arguments: List&#60;any&#62;): Object | Send a transaction to the smart contract and execute its method. This can alter the smart contract state. Send a transaction using the value defined in defaultSendOptions of the Contract. It thorws an exception if the value required for transaction (i.e `from` or `gas`) is not defined in defaultSendOptions. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| send(arguments: List&#60;any&#62;): Object | Send a transaction to the smart contract and execute its method. This can alter the smart contract state. Send a transaction using the value defined in defaultSendOptions of the Contract. It throws an exception if the value required for transaction (i.e `from` or `gas`) is not defined in defaultSendOptions. |
```

---

> kip: <to be assigned>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kip: 34
```

title: Klaytn SDK Common Architecture

> author: Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>, Jimin Kim <jasmine.kim@groundx.xyz>, Seonyong Kim <kale.kim@groundx.xyz>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Jimin Kim <jasmine.kim@groundx.xyz>, Seonyong Kim <kale.kim@groundx.xyz>, Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
```

The first author should be the main author who has the biggest contribution. :)

> discussions-to: <URL>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions-to: https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/35
```

status: Draft

> type: <Standards Track | Meta | Informational>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: Standards Track
```

> category (*only required for Standard Track): <Core | Networking | Storage | Interface | KCT | SDK | Application>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
category (*only required for Standard Track): SDK
```

> created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created: 2020-07-02
```

> requires (*optional): <KIP number(s)>
> replaces (*optional): <KIP number(s)>
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
```

## Simple Summary

> A new software architecture for Klaytn development environment which is shared by all Klaytn SDKs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new software architecture for Klaytn development environment which is shared by all Klaytn SDKs (also known as caver).
```

## Abstract

> The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of programming languages.
```

## Motivation

> The terms used in the Klaytn SDK are different, and there is no structure to implement when the SDK is developed with other languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Klaytn SDKs (caver-js and caver-java) do not share common terminology and software architecture.
It makes difficult to implement blockchain applications using multiple programming languages.
For example, if the server program is implemented in Java and the client is implemented in Javascript,
the developer should learn two different SDKs that have different terminology and software architecture
even if they are developed for the exactly same functionality.
```

> The common architecture is designed to unify the terms used in the SDK and easily extend to other languages by establishing a language independent common architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The common architecture is designed to unify the terminology used in the SDKs and easily extend to other languages by establishing a language-independent common architecture.

With the common architecture, we want to achieve two goals:
- Developers can easily implement their application using another language if they have implemented in any Klaytn SDK before.
- An SDK in another programming language can be implemented relatively easily because the software architecture is commonly defined.
```

## Specification

> ### Terminology

Reviewer: Hmm.. It looks like those descriptions are package descriptions, not descriptions of terms.

Author: Then, is it better to delete this part and include it when explaining the diagram for each package?

|Term|Description|
|---|---|

> | [Account](#account-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a structure that contains informations needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn blockchain platform (Klaytn). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Account](#account-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a structure that contains information needed to update the [AccountKey] of an account in the Klaytn blockchain platform (Klaytn). |
```

> | [Keyring](#wallet-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a structure that contains the address of the account and the private key(s). This is a class that allows users to sign on using their own [Klaytn's account] through the Caver. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Keyring](#wallet-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a structure that contains the address of the account and the private key(s). This is a class that allows users to sign a transaction using their own [Klaytn's account] through the Caver. |
```

| [Wallet](#wallet-layer-class-diagram) | Represents an in-memory wallet that can manage multiple keyring instances. |
| [Transaction](#transaction-layer-class-diagram) | Represents transactions based on Klaytn's various transaction types. |

> | [RPC](#transaction-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a json-rpc call that interacts with a Klaytn Node. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [RPC](#transaction-layer-class-diagram) | Represents classes consisting of json-rpc methods that interact with a Klaytn Node. |
```

> | [Contract](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a smart contract object that interacts with smart contracts on the Klaytn. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Contract](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents an object that interacts with a smart contract on the Klaytn. |
```

> | [ABI](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a decode and encode parameter module with an ABI (Application Binary Interface). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [ABI](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a module that is able to decode and encode parameters with an ABI (Application Binary Interface). |
```

> | [KCT](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents a smart contract object that interacts with KCT token contracts on the Klaytn. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [KCT](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Represents an object that interacts with a KCT token contract on Klaytn. |
```

| [Utils](#utils-layer-class-diagram) | Represents the utility functions. |

### Layer Diagram

> Diagram showing the layers of the SDK. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the box that represents each layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below diagram shows the layers of the SDK. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the layer box.
```

---
kip: 34
title: Klaytn SDK Common Architecture
author: Jimin Kim <jasmine.kim@groundx.xyz>, Seonyong Kim <kale.kim@groundx.xyz>, Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
discussions-to: https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/35
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category (*only required for Standard Track): SDK
created: 2020-07-02
---

## Simple Summary
A new software architecture for Klaytn development environment which is shared by all Klaytn SDKs (also known as caver).

## Abstract
The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of programming languages.

## Motivation
Klaytn SDKs (caver-js and caver-java) do not share common terminology and software architecture.
It makes difficult to implement blockchain applications using multiple programming languages.
For example, if the server program is implemented in Java and the client is implemented in Javascript,
the developer should learn two different SDKs that have different terminology and software architecture

> even if they are developed for the exactly same functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
even if those programs utilize a single blockchain platform, Klaytn.
```

---
kip: 34
title: Klaytn SDK Common Architecture
author: Jimin Kim <jasmine.kim@groundx.xyz>, Seonyong Kim <kale.kim@groundx.xyz>, Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
discussions-to: https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/35
status: Draft
type: Standards Track

> category (*only required for Standard Track): SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
category: SDK
```

## Abstract
The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of programming languages.

## Motivation
Klaytn SDKs (caver-js and caver-java) do not share common terminology and software architecture.
It makes difficult to implement blockchain applications using multiple programming languages.
For example, if the server program is implemented in Java and the client is implemented in Javascript,
the developer should learn two different SDKs that have different terminology and software architecture
even if those programs utilize a single blockchain platform, Klaytn.

The common architecture is designed to unify the terminology used in the SDKs and easily extend to other languages by establishing a language-independent common architecture.

With the common architecture, we want to achieve two goals:
- Developers can easily implement their application using another language if they have implemented in any Klaytn SDK before.
- An SDK in another programming language can be implemented relatively easily because the software architecture is commonly defined.

## Specification

### Terminology

|Term|Description|
|---|---|

> | [Account](#account-layer-class-diagram) | A data structure containing information about a person's balance or a smart contract. Klaytn provides the function to separate the address of the account from the key pair used in the account, so the account stores the [AccountKey] used in the account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Account](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#overview-of-account-state-and-address) | A data structure containing information about a person's balance or a smart contract. Klaytn provides the function to separate the address of the account from the key pair used in the account, so the account stores the [AccountKey] used in the account. |
```

> | [Keyring](#wallet-layer-class-diagram) | A structure to store Klaytn's account address and private key(s) to use when signing. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Keyring | A data structure containing Klaytn's account address and private key(s). It is used to sign a transaction. |
```

> | [Transaction](#transaction-layer-class-diagram) | A message sent between nodes that changes the state of the blockchain. Klaytn provides [multiple transaction types] that empower transactions with new capabilities and optimizations for memory footprint and performance. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions#transactions-overview) | A data structure sent between nodes that changes the state of the blockchain. Klaytn provides [multiple transaction types] that empower transactions with new capabilities and optimizations for memory footprint and performance. |
```

> | [JSON-RPC](#rpc-layer-class-diagram) | JSON-RPC is a remote procedure call protocol encoded in JSON. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) | A stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol. It uses JSON as data format. |
```

> | [Contract](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | A computer program or a transaction protocol which is intended to automatically execute, control or document legally relevant events and actions according to the terms of a contract or an agreement. You can deploy smart contract to Klaytn or execute smart contract that have already been deployed to Klaytn through transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Contract | A computer program or a transaction protocol which is intended to automatically execute, control or document legally relevant events and actions according to the terms of a contract or an agreement. You can deploy smart contract or execute smart contract that have already been deployed to Klaytn through a transaction. |
```

> | [ABI](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | An interface between two binary program modules. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ABI | An application binary interface (ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules. |
```

> | [KCT](#contract-abi-kct-layer-class-diagram) | Klaytn Compatible Token (KCT) is a special type of smart contract that implements certain technical specifications. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [KCT](http://kips.klaytn.com/token) | Klaytn Compatible Token (KCT) is a special type of smart contract that implements certain technical specifications. |
```

> ### Overall Class Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Overview of the Common Architecture
```

> This is the overall class diagram of the SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the overview of the common architecture of Klaytn SDK.
```

![all](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/86310531-4e4cf900-bc59-11ea-8a4e-09a34f7f543d.png)

> ### Layer Diagram

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Layer Diagram of the Common Architecture
```

> Below diagram shows the layers of the SDK. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the layer box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below diagram shows the layers of the common architecture. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the layer box.
```

![layerDiagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/85986440-355d0180-ba27-11ea-8475-afe7638e6ffb.png)

> The `KCT` layer allows you to interact with KCT token contracts (e.g. [KIP-7] or [KIP-17]). This is implemented by extending the `Contract` class belonging to the Contract layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KCT` layer allows you to interact with Klaytn compatible token (KCT) contracts (e.g. [KIP-7] or [KIP-17]). This is implemented by extending the `Contract` class in the `Contract` layer.
```

The `Contract` layer allows you to interact with smart contracts on the Klaytn.

The `ABI` layer provides the functions to encode and decode parameters based on ABI.

> Classes exist for each transaction type in the `Transaction` layer, and include the `TransactionDecoder` class that decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string, and the `TransactionHasher` class that calculates the hash of the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Transaction` layer contains classes of Klaytn transaction types, `TransactionDecoder`, and `TransactionHasher`.

The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string. The `TransactionHasher` class calculates the hash of the transaction.
```

> The `Wallet` layer contains Keyring (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) classes and `KeyringContainer` class that acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the actual Keyring instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Wallet` layer contains keyring classes (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) and `KeyringContainer` class that contains multiple keyrings. The `KeyringContainer` acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the keyring instances.
```

---
kip: 34
title: Klaytn SDK Common Architecture
author: Jimin Kim <jasmine.kim@groundx.xyz>, Seonyong Kim <kale.kim@groundx.xyz>, Junghyun Colin Kim <colin.kim@groundx.xyz>
discussions-to: https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/35
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: SDK
created: 2020-07-02
---

## Simple Summary

> A new software architecture for Klaytn development environment which is shared by all Klaytn SDKs (also known as caver).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A new software architecture for Klaytn development environment which is shared by all Klaytn SDKs (also known as 'caver' series).
```

### Overview of the Common Architecture

This is the overview of the common architecture of Klaytn SDK.

![all](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/86310531-4e4cf900-bc59-11ea-8a4e-09a34f7f543d.png)

### Layer Diagram of the Common Architecture

Below diagram shows the layers of the common architecture. Components belonging to each layer are represented inside the layer box.

![layerDiagram](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/85986440-355d0180-ba27-11ea-8475-afe7638e6ffb.png)

The `KCT` layer allows you to interact with Klaytn compatible token (KCT) contracts (e.g. [KIP-7] or [KIP-17]). This is implemented by extending the `Contract` class in the `Contract` layer.

The `Contract` layer allows you to interact with smart contracts on the Klaytn.

The `ABI` layer provides the functions to encode and decode parameters based on ABI.

The `Transaction` layer contains classes of Klaytn transaction types, `TransactionDecoder`, and `TransactionHasher`.

The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string. The `TransactionHasher` class calculates the hash of the transaction.

> The `Wallet` layer contains keyring classes (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) and `KeyringContainer` class that contains multiple keyrings. The `KeyringContainer` acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the keyring instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Wallet` layer contains keyring classes (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) and `KeyringContainer` class that contains multiple keyrings. The `KeyringContainer` class acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the keyring instances.
```

> The `Account` layer contains an Account class that stores information needed when updating the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Account` layer contains an `Account` class that stores information needed when updating the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn.
```

> Also, the `RPC` layer includes the `Klay` class, which is responsible for rpc calls in the klay namespace, and the `Net` class, which is responsible for rpc calls in the net namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the `RPC` layer includes the `Klay` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the klay namespace, and the `Net` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the net namespace.
```

> Finally, in the `Utils` layer there is a Utils class that provides utility functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the `Utils` layer contains the `Utils` class that provides utility functions.
```

> From the next chapter, details of each layer group are described.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the next chapter, each layer group is described in detail.
```

output: receipt of value transfer transaction

// Read keystore json file and decrypt keystore
keystore <- readFile('./keystore.json')
keyring <- decryptKeystore(keystore, password)

// Add to in-memory wallet
addToTheWallet(keyring)

// Create value transfer transaction
vt <- createValueTransferTransaction(from, to, value, gas)

// Sign to the transaction
signed <- sign(from, vt)

// Send transaction to the Klaytn blockchain platform (Klaytn)
receipt <- sendRawTransaction(signed)
print receipt
```

## Rationale
While designing the common architecture, I tried to use the concept used in Klaytn in the SDK as much as possible. In addition, in order to provide the functions of the existing Caver, it was designed not to break the existing structure.

## Backwards Compatibility
There is no compatibility problem. When the common architecture is implemented in the existing Klaytn SDK, Caver (caver-js, caver-java), the existing functions should be provided as it is.

## Test Cases
1. All of the functions defined in the above common architecture diagram should be provided.
2. The exsiting functions in caver-js and caver-java can be used.

## Implementation

> PRs related to common architecture are linked to the issues below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PRs related to common architecture are linked to the issues below. The common architecture is implemented in caver-js v1.5.0 and caver-java v1.5.0.
```

`Account` is a class that contains information needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn. It has `address` and `accountKey` as member variables. The `accountKey` can be an instance of (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` or `AccountKeyRoleBased`) depending on the key.

An `Account` instance is injected into the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction types (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` or `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When an AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the account key of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in the `Account` instance.

Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and account key classes (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implements IAccountKey.

`WeightedMultiSigOptions` is provided for `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` where the threshold and the weight of each key are defined.

The `AccountKeyDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the decode function implemented in each AccountKey class.

> #### IAccountKey

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Need descriptions for all classes before explaining their methods.

Author: Hm... For the purpose of describing methods, I've only described the classes in which the methods exist here.
If you want a description of classes, I think that classes that don't have methods should also be listed.

Reviewer: It would be better to include all classes with their attributes. Sorry for the endless work. T_T

Author: @kjhman21 I added descriptions for class and member variables. Please review this when you have time :) Thank you!

| fromXYPoint(x: String, y: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from x and y points. It throws an exception if the x and y points are invalid. |
| fromPublicKey(publicKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from public key string. It throws an exception if the public key is invalid. |
| getXYPoint(): String[] | Returns the x and y points of the public key. |
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic. |

#### AccountKeyFail

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyFail | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail and returns an `AccountKeyFail` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail. |

#### AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig and returns an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

> | fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance with public key strings in `pubArray` and the option that defines the threshold and the weight of each key in `WeightedMultiSigOptions `. It throws an exception if the options or public key for accountKeyWeightedMultiSig is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance with public key strings in `pubArray` and the options defining the threshold and the weight of each key in `WeightedMultiSigOptions `. It throws an exception if the options or public keys for accountKeyWeightedMultiSig are invalid. |
```

| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig. |

#### AccountKeyRoleBased

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyRoleBased | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. It throws an exception if the decoding is failed. |

> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role. |
> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>, options: List<WeightedMultiSigOptions>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role and the option that defines threshold and weight of each key. It throws an exception if the public key(s) for each role or options is invalid. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>, options: List<WeightedMultiSigOptions>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role and the option that defines threshold and weight of each key. It throws an exception if the public key(s) for each role or options is invalid. |
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role. This function assumes that all the values of the threshold and weights are set to be one. |
```

The following standard allows Klaytn's SDK, Caver, to implement a common architecture regardless of programming languages.

## Motivation

Klaytn SDKs (caver-js and caver-java) do not share common terminology and software architecture.
It makes difficult to implement blockchain applications using multiple programming languages.
For example, if the server program is implemented in Java and the client is implemented in Javascript,
the developer should learn two different SDKs that have different terminology and software architecture
even if those programs utilize a single blockchain platform, Klaytn.

The common architecture is designed to unify the terminology used in the SDKs and easily extend to other languages by establishing a language-independent common architecture.

With the common architecture, we want to achieve two goals:

- Developers can easily implement their application using another language if they have implemented in any Klaytn SDK before.
- An SDK in another programming language can be implemented relatively easily because the software architecture is commonly defined.

## Specification

### Terminology

| Term        | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | [Account](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/accounts#overview-of-account-state-and-address) | A data structure containing information about a person's balance or a smart contract. Klaytn provides the function to separate the address of the account from the key pair used in the account, so the account stores the [AccountKey] used in the account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Account | A data structure containing information like balance, nonce, public key(s), etc. Note that the public key(s) of the account can be changed in Klaytn because the public key(s) and the account address are decoupled. Please refer to [klaytn account] for more detail.  |
```

Author: Since it is called a key pair, it seems that everything from the Account data structure to the private key is stored. Doesn't it seem natural to call it a public key of the key pair?

Reviewer: @jimni1222 all right. I will use "public key(s)" instead of "key pair". :)

> | Keyring | A data structure containing Klaytn's account address and private key(s). It is used to sign a transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Account key | A data structure representing various Klaytn account key types. Please refer to [accountkey] for more detail. |
| Keyring | A data structure containing Klaytn's account address and private key(s). It is used to sign a transaction. |
```

| [Transaction](https://docs.klaytn.com/klaytn/design/transactions#transactions-overview) | A data structure sent between nodes that changes the state of the blockchain. Klaytn provides [multiple transaction types] that empower transactions with new capabilities and optimizations for memory footprint and performance. |
| [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) | A stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol. It uses JSON as data format. |

> | Contract | A computer program or a transaction protocol which is intended to automatically execute, control or document legally relevant events and actions according to the terms of a contract or an agreement. You can deploy smart contract or execute smart contract that have already been deployed to Klaytn through a transaction. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Contract | A computer program or a transaction protocol which is intended to automatically execute, control or document legally relevant events and actions according to the terms of a contract or an agreement. You can deploy a smart contract or execute a smart contract that has already been deployed to Klaytn through a transaction. |
```

| ABI | An application binary interface (ABI) to communicate between two binary program modules. |

> | [KCT](http://kips.klaytn.com/token) | Klaytn Compatible Token (KCT) is a special type of smart contract that implements certain technical specifications. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [KCT (Klaytn Compatible Token)](http://kips.klaytn.com/token) | A special type of smart contract that implements token specifications defined in [Klaytn Improvement Proposals](http://kips.klaytn.com/). |
```

The `Contract` layer allows you to interact with smart contracts on the Klaytn.

The `ABI` layer provides the functions to encode and decode parameters based on ABI.

The `Transaction` layer contains classes of Klaytn transaction types, `TransactionDecoder`, and `TransactionHasher`.

The `TransactionDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded transaction string. The `TransactionHasher` class calculates the hash of the transaction.

The `Wallet` layer contains keyring classes (`SingleKeyring`, `MultipleKeyring`, and `RoleBasedKeyring`) and `KeyringContainer` class that contains multiple keyrings. The `KeyringContainer` class acts as an "in-memory wallet" that stores the Keyring instances.

The `Account` layer contains an `Account` class that stores information needed when updating the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn.

Also, the `RPC` layer includes the `Klay` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the klay namespace, and the `Net` class, which is responsible for rpc calls of the net namespace.

Finally, the `Utils` layer contains the `Utils` class that provides utility functions.

> From the next chapter, each layer group is described in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the next chapter, each layer is described in detail.
```

### Account Layer Class Diagram

> The `Account` layer provides functionality related to updating the [AccountKey] of the Klatyn account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Account` layer provides functionality related to updating the [AccountKey] of the Klaytn account.
```

![account](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32922423/86084568-2da96580-bad8-11ea-9c46-e74ae6d8ad7a.png)

> `Account` is a class that contains informations needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn. Inside, it has `address` and `accountKey` as member variables. The `accountKey` can be an instance of AccountKey (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` or `AccountKeyRoleBased`) depending on the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Account` is a class that contains information needed to update the [AccountKey] of the account in the Klaytn. It has `address` and `accountKey` as member variables. The `accountKey` can be an instance of (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` or `AccountKeyRoleBased`) depending on the key.
```

> Account is used in the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` or `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When the AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the [AccountKey] of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `Account` instance is injected into the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction types (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` or `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When an AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the account key of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in the `Account` instance.
```

> Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and each AccountKey (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implements IAccountKey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and account key classes (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implements IAccountKey.
```

> `WeightedMultiSigOptions` for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig where threshold and weight of each key are defined are also provided as classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WeightedMultiSigOptions` is provided for `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` where the threshold and the weight of each key are defined.
```

The `AccountKeyDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the decode function implemented in each AccountKey class.

> #### IAccountKey Method Descriptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### IAccountKey
```

Please make it concise for titles.

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes implement `IAccountKey`, and this function must be implemented internally. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes implement `IAccountKey`, and this function must be implemented. |
```

> #### AccountKeyLegacy Method Descriptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### AccountKeyLegacy
```

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKeyLegacy. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |
```

> #### AccountKeyPublic Method Descriptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### AccountKeyPublic
```

An `Account` instance is injected into the `account` field of the AccountUpdate transaction types (`AccountUpdate`, `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdate` or `FeeDelegatedAccountUpdateWithRatio`). When an AccountUpdate transaction is successfully processed in Klaytn, the account key of the [Klaytn account] is updated with the `accountKey` defined in the `Account` instance.

Interface for AccountKey is defined as `IAccountKey`, and account key classes (`AccountKeyLegacy`, `AccountKeyPublic`, `AccountKeyFail`, `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` and `AccountKeyRoleBased`) implements IAccountKey.

`WeightedMultiSigOptions` is provided for `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` where the threshold and the weight of each key are defined.

The `AccountKeyDecoder` class decodes the RLP-encoded string using the decode function implemented in each AccountKey class.

#### IAccountKey

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns a RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey classes implement `IAccountKey`, and this function must be implemented. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns an RLP-encoded string of AccountKey. AccountKey* classes below inherit `IAccountKey`, and this function must be implemented. |
```

#### AccountKeyLegacy

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | Decodes a RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyLegacy | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy and returns an `AccountKeyLegacy` instance. |
```

Reviewer: @jimni1222 What happens if the decode process fails? it throws? or returns a null object?

Author: It will throw an error!

Reviewer: @jimni1222 Then, please insert the sentence below for the relevant cases:

It throws an exception if the decoding is failed.

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns a RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyLegacy. |
```

#### AccountKeyPublic

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKeyPublic. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Decodes a RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic and returns an `AccountKeyPublic` instance. |
```

> | fromXYPoint(x: String, y: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an instance of AccountKeyPublic from x and y points. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromXYPoint(x: String, y: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from x and y points. |
```

> | fromPublicKey(publicKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an instance of AccountKeyPublic from public key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromPublicKey(publicKey: String): AccountKeyPublic | Creates an `AccountKeyPublic` instance from public key string. |
```

| getXYPoint(): String[] | Returns the x and y points of the public key. |

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyPublic. |
```

#### AccountKeyFail

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyFail | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKeyFail. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyFail | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail and returns an `AccountKeyFail` instance. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyFail. |
```

#### AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig and returns an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance. |
```

> | fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMutliSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates an instance of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig with public key strings and option that defines threshold and weight of each key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: String[], options: WeightedMultiSigOptions): AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig | Creates an `AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig` instance with public key strings in `pubArray` and the option that defines the threshold and the weight of each key in `WeightedMultiSigOptions `. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig. |
```

#### WeightedPublicKey

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | encodeToBytes(): String[] | Returns an encoded weighted public key string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| encodeToBytes(): String[] | Returns an encoded weighted public key string. |
```

What method to use for this encoding? RLP? or else?

Author: This function formats the weightedPublicKey for AccountKeyWeightedMultiSig RLP encoding. 
I think the name of this function should be modified. What do you think about modifying the name with `formatToEncode` or `formatForEncoding`?
It is a function implemented for internal use, so it doesn't matter if you change the name.
If you are concerned about the deployed already, how about leave the previously implemented function as it is and implement another function with the same name.

Author: I will remove this function from KIP :) Thank you for opinion.

#### AccountKeyRoleBased

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyRoleBased | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKeyRoleBased. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): AccountKeyRoleBased | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. |
```

> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key string for each role. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role. |
```

> | fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>, options: List<WeightedMultiSigOptions>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key string for each role and option that defines threshold and weight of each key. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fromRoledPublicKeysAndOptions(pubArray: List<String[]>, options: List<WeightedMultiSigOptions>): AccountKeyRoleBased | Creates an instance of AccountKeyRoleBased with public key strings for each role and the option that defines threshold and weight of each key. |
```

> | getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| getRLPEncoding(): String | Returns the RLP-encoded string of AccountKeyRoleBased. |
```

#### AccountKeyDecoder

| Method | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |

> | decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): IAccountKey | Decodes RLP-encoded AccountKey. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| decode(rlpEncodedKey: String): IAccountKey | Decodes an RLP-encoded string of any class that inherits `IAccountKey`. |
```
